0.1 %9History%9

Hello. I'm Timo Sirainen aka. cras, and I'm an IRC addict. :)

I'm actually quite new in IRC, I got my first internet connection sometimes
around fall 1997 and I started actively IRCing around christmas. I used EPIC
and BitchX mostly at the start, but soon found some nice KDE IRC client which
name I can't remember anymore. It's author however stopped developing it after
I had been using it a few months. And since it had bugs and all, I wanted
another nice GUI IRC client. I didn't find any.

Since I've always been a coder and do-it-yourself guy (my own offline reader
and BBS software in the BBS ages), I started my own IRC client at spring 1998.
I called it yagIRC standing for "Yet another GTK IRC client". GTK was in around
version 1.0 back then, and it had a lot of features/bugs which I found all the
time as I tried to do some "different" things than other people. These
sometimes prevented me of doing something some feature I wanted.

So, in summer 1998 I went to army and I passed development of yagIRC to two
guys, they did a few new features and released a version or two, but finally
(in summer 1999?) they put a message to web page which told that they finally
had stopped developing it entirely, also saying that my code was a total mess
:) (yes, it was a mess)

I got out of the army 1.1.1999. I promised to myself that I wouldn't do another
IRC client, but after trying to use BitchX a while, I started dreaming about an
IRC client which would have an excellent look and feel. After trying various
things, I only came up with the GNOME panel applet which people still tell me
that it's a great feature. I was more like thinking some pretty little icons in
some corner telling me about new messages and other stuff..

I thought that I would keep Irssi a small project, just doing a few little
features that *I* wanted, nothing for others. But after few versions and few
interested people, I started coding it more and more generic..

Finally, after releasing version 0.6.0 (february, 1999) I realized that things
were getting into a big mess again. I started a rewrite, I organized the code
into irc-base, irc-extra, user interface and GUI directories, created the
signalling system for letting them communicate themselves easily and released
0.7.0. This was the base for the rest of the 0.7.x releases, and it did work
pretty well. The signalling system was excellent, for example creating text
mode version was really easy and you didn't need tens of (empty) gui_xxx()
functions like in the yagIRC days. Maintaining the text and GTK versions
separately was really easy too.

About a year later after releasing Irssi 0.7.0, I started having dreams about
an IRC client that would be extremely modular, like you could upgrade the
client to newer version ON THE FLY without needingto even disconnect from the
servers. I started a project codenamed i2k, I took the code from Irssi, split
it into more directories and changed quite a lot of the code to work a bit
differently.

I developed i2k quite a long, until I finally gave up with it since it could do
only some basic things, and Irssi 0.7 really needed maintaining. After a while
I got an idea, maybe I could merge the code from the i2k to Irssi more easily
than rewriting the whole client. This was more easier than I thought. It's now
been two months since I started it, and Irssi 0.8 is looking absolutely
excellent.
